tutorials/2-modify-tables/README.md, before:

# Modify Tables

This folder contains notebooks demonstrating how to modify and extend data in 3LC, creating new Tables inheriting from existing ones.

|  |  |  |
|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|
| **Add image metrics** | **Add embeddings** | **Add classification metrics** |
| [![add-image-metrics](../images/add-image-metrics.png)](add-image-metrics.ipynb) | [![add-embeddings](../images/add-embeddings.png)](add-embeddings.ipynb) | [![add-classification-metrics](../images/add-classification-metrics.png)](add-classification-metrics.ipynb) |
| This notebook covers adding image metrics such as brightness, sharpness, and contrast. |  This notebook demonstrates adding and reducing embeddings from a pre-trained model, allowing for advanced searches and similarity comparisons. | Explores adding the global image metrics "diversity" and "uniqueness", using pre-computed embedding and label columns. |
| **Split Tables** | **Add new data** | **Add new data and split** |
| [![split-tables](../images/split-tables.png)](split-tables.ipynb) | [![add-new-data](../images/add-new-data.png)](add-new-data.ipynb) | [![add-new-data-and-split](../images/add-new-data-and-split.png)](add-new-data-and-split.ipynb) |
| Learn to split Tables into subsets based on conditions or sample splits for targeted processing. | This notebook focuses on adding new data entries, demonstrating how to expand datasets with fresh information. | This notebook provides two ways of adding new data to a dataset with existing split Tables. |
| **Convert bounding boxes to instance segmentation masks** | **Auto-segment images using SAM** | |
| [![bbs-2-segments](../images/bb2seg.png)](add-segmentation-column.ipynb) | [![autosegment-images](../images/sam-autosegment.png)](autosegment-images.ipynb) | |
| This notebook demonstrates how to convert bounding boxes to instance segmentation masks using the [SAM model](https://github.com/facebookresearch/segment-anything). | This notebook demonstrates how to auto-segment images using the [SAM model](https://github.com/facebookresearch/segment-anything). | |

Commit message:

Add tutorial showing how to weight a subset of a Table (#51)
* Add tutorial showing how to weight a subset in the Python API

Co-authored-by: Frederik J. Mellbye <20386018+fredmell@users.noreply.github.com>

tutorials/2-modify-tables/README.md, after:

# Modify Tables

This folder contains notebooks demonstrating how to modify and extend data in 3LC, creating new Tables inheriting from existing ones.

|  |  |  |
|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|
| **Add image metrics** | **Add embeddings** | **Add classification metrics** |
| [![add-image-metrics](../images/add-image-metrics.png)](add-image-metrics.ipynb) | [![add-embeddings](../images/add-embeddings.png)](add-embeddings.ipynb) | [![add-classification-metrics](../images/add-classification-metrics.png)](add-classification-metrics.ipynb) |
| This notebook covers adding image metrics such as brightness, sharpness, and contrast. |  This notebook demonstrates adding and reducing embeddings from a pre-trained model, allowing for advanced searches and similarity comparisons. | Explores adding the global image metrics "diversity" and "uniqueness", using pre-computed embedding and label columns. |
| **Split Tables** | **Add new data** | **Add new data and split** |
| [![split-tables](../images/split-tables.png)](split-tables.ipynb) | [![add-new-data](../images/add-new-data.png)](add-new-data.ipynb) | [![add-new-data-and-split](../images/add-new-data-and-split.png)](add-new-data-and-split.ipynb) |
| Learn to split Tables into subsets based on conditions or sample splits for targeted processing. | This notebook focuses on adding new data entries, demonstrating how to expand datasets with fresh information. | This notebook provides two ways of adding new data to a dataset with existing split Tables. |
| **Convert bounding boxes to instance segmentation masks** | **Auto-segment images using SAM** | **Weighted Table Subset Selection** |
| [![bbs-2-segments](../images/bb2seg.png)](add-segmentation-column.ipynb) | [![autosegment-images](../images/sam-autosegment.png)](autosegment-images.ipynb) | [![weight-coreset](../images/weight-coreset.png)](weight-coreset.ipynb) |
| This notebook demonstrates how to convert bounding boxes to instance segmentation masks using the [SAM model](https://github.com/facebookresearch/segment-anything). | This notebook demonstrates how to auto-segment images using the [SAM model](https://github.com/facebookresearch/segment-anything). | This notebook demonstrates how to weight a subset of table rows to 0. |
