docs/alias_tool_progress.md, before:

# Alias Tool Progress

## Current State

### Core Functionality
- Implemented alias detection and listing
- Implemented alias creation and application
- Added support for inplace modifications
- Added column-specific processing
- Added config persistence (project/global scope)

### Command Line Interface
```bash
# List aliases (default behavior)
3lc alias path/to/table

# Create new alias and replace paths
3lc alias path/to/table --create-alias "<DATA_PATH>::/data/project" --inplace

# Apply existing alias
3lc alias path/to/table --apply-alias "DATA_PATH" --inplace

# Process specific column
3lc alias path/to/table --column "image_path" --create-alias "<DATA_PATH>::/data/project" --inplace

# Persist to config
3lc alias path/to/table --create-alias "<DATA_PATH>::/data/project" --persist-config
```

### Test Coverage
- Basic functionality tests for all core components
- Tests for alias parsing
- Tests for table handling
- Tests for parquet operations
- Tests for config persistence
- Tests for column-specific processing
- Tests for inplace modifications

## Next Steps

### High Priority
1. Add error handling tests for:
   - Invalid alias formats
   - Missing files
   - Permission issues
   - Invalid column names
   - Circular dependencies

2. Add CLI tests to verify:
   - Argument parsing
   - Help messages
   - Error messages
   - Output formatting

3. Add run-specific tests for:
   - Run input table handling
   - Run output table handling
   - Run constants handling

### Medium Priority
1. Enhance output formatting:
   - Better progress indicators
   - Clearer error messages
   - Summary of changes

2. Add validation:
   - Alias name format validation
   - Path existence checks
   - Config file validation

3. Add documentation:
   - Usage examples
   - Best practices
   - Common pitfalls

### Low Priority
1. Performance optimizations:
   - Batch processing for large tables
   - Parallel processing for multiple tables
   - Memory usage optimization

2. Additional features:
   - Dry run mode
   - Backup before modification
   - Alias validation mode

## Known Issues
1. Need to handle deep lineage without parquet caches
2. Need to improve error messages for missing aliases
3. Need to handle multiple root tables more efficiently

## Technical Notes
- Uses pyarrow for parquet operations
- Follows 3LC's URL handling patterns
- Maintains table lineage during modifications
- Preserves original data structure

Commit message:

Refactor alias tool to streamline command-line interface and enhance processing capabilities
- Updated the command-line interface to simplify alias application and improve user experience by consolidating commands for alias replacement and column processing.
- Removed deprecated alias creation commands and adjusted the handling of parent table processing, allowing users to control whether to process parent tables recursively.
- Enhanced the `handle_pa_table`, `handle_table`, and `handle_object` functions to focus on essential parameters, improving clarity and usability.
- Added backup mechanisms for in-place modifications and refined error handling for various scenarios, ensuring robustness in alias processing.
- Updated documentation and tests to reflect changes in functionality and maintain coverage for new features.

docs/alias_tool_progress.md, after:

# Alias Tool Progress

## Current State

### Core Functionality
- Implemented alias detection and listing
- Implemented alias application
- Simplified to in-place modifications only
- Added support for multiple column processing
- Added parent table traversal control

### Command Line Interface
```bash
# List aliases (default behavior)
3lc alias replace path/to/table

# Apply existing alias (in-place)
3lc alias replace path/to/table --apply DATA_PATH

# Process specific columns
3lc alias replace path/to/table --columns "image_path,mask_path"

# Skip processing parent tables
3lc alias replace path/to/table --no-process-parents
```

### Test Coverage
- Basic functionality tests for all core components
- Tests for alias parsing
- Tests for table handling
- Tests for parquet operations
- Tests for column-specific processing
- Tests for in-place modifications

## Next Steps

### High Priority
1. Add backup mechanism for in-place modifications:
   - Create backups of parquet files before modification
   - Delete backups only after successful completion
   - Restore from backup on failure

2. Add error handling tests for:
   - Invalid alias formats
   - Missing files
   - Permission issues
   - Invalid column names
   - Circular dependencies
   - Deep lineage with mixed cache/input parquets

3. Add CLI tests to verify:
   - Argument parsing
   - Help messages
   - Error messages
   - Output formatting

### Medium Priority
1. Enhance output formatting:
   - Better progress indicators
   - Clearer error messages
   - Summary of changes

2. Add validation:
   - Alias name format validation
   - Path existence checks
   - Parent table processing controls

3. Add documentation:
   - Usage examples
   - Best practices
   - Common pitfalls

### Low Priority
1. Performance optimizations:
   - Batch processing for large tables
   - Memory usage optimization

2. Additional features:
   - Dry run mode
   - Alias validation mode

## Known Issues
1. Need to handle deep lineage with mixed cache/input parquets
2. Need to improve error messages for missing aliases
3. Need to handle backup/restore for in-place modifications

## Technical Notes
- Uses pyarrow for parquet operations
- Follows 3LC's URL handling patterns
- Maintains table lineage during modifications
- All modifications are in-place
- Distinguishes between row cache files (optional) and input parquet files (required)
- Supports multiple column processing
- Parent table processing can be controlled
